Elufisan Temidayo Oluyomi Elufisan (Sc. D)
1 Elufisan Temidayo Oluyomi (Sc.D)
ELUFISAN, Temidayo Oluyomi, (DSc)
Mobile: +1 202-695-0877, +52-8991852536 	email: ptemidayo@gmail.com
9346 Cherry Hill Road, Apt #104 College Park MD United State, 20704
Personal statement: I am a Doctor of Science in biotechnology who is passionate about research and highly
motivated to see how the application of biotechnology can help ensure good health quality and a
sustainable living environment. My training as a microbiologist has prepared me with skills such as next-
generation 	genome 	sequencing 	technique 	and 	analysis, 	lipid 	profiling, 	antimicrobial 	resistance
monitoring, bacteria culturing, identification, and analysis using various molecular techniques such PCR,
SDS-PAGE enzyme analysis, and bacteria engineering techniques like cloning and bacteria transformation.
I can also use animal models to verify bacteria behavior in vivo.
Education:
• 	Doctor of Science in Biotechnology, Instituto Politecnico Nacional Mexico, (July 2019),
• 	M.Sc. in Pharmaceutical microbiology, University of Ibadan, Nigeria, Nigeria (Oct 2011)
• 	B. Tech, in microbiology, Ladoke Akintola University of Technology, Nigeria (Dec 2005)
Research Experience.
Research fellow at the National Center for Technology Management (NACETEM)
Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Nigeria 	(April 2010 – April 2020)
• 	Participated in Science Policy writing and was a member of a subgroup which wrote the current
Science And innovation policy for Nigeria.
• 	Participated in human capital development via the training of students for the postgraduate
diploma in Technology Management.
• 	Conduct research on science innovation and technology policy using the social science approach
involving the use of questionnaire and data analysis with SPSS software.
ORISE Postdoc fellow with Dr. Jenny Maloney 	Feb 2024 - Feb 2026
United State Department of Agriculture (USDA), Agricultural Research Section (ARS), Beltsville, MD
• 	Isolate and characterized food borne pathogen of animal and human origin.
• 	Sequence and analyze parasites’ genome.
• 	Genome assembly, annotation, and comparative analysis of parasites.
• 	Bioinformatics analysis of parasites.
Postdoc fellow with Dr., Otto Geiger, 	Nov 2021 - Oct 2023
Ecological genomics, Center for Genomic Science, National Autonomous University of Mexico.
• 	Verified the role of sphingolipid in the virulent behavior of Caulobacter crescentus NA 1000 in a larva
model using Galleria mellonella as a model organism. Larvae were injected with Caulobacter that
were deficient in serine palmitoyl transferase and with the wild typed strain to evaluate the effect
of sphingolipid on virulence.
• 	Identified the homologous gene in Escherichia coli that may be involved in the biosynthesis of
Sphingolipid using an Insilco genome analysis with Synttax and blast search against the NCBI
database. Similarly, multiple alignment with MEGA X was used to compare similarities.
• 	Carried out the extraction of lipopolysaccharides from Caulobacter crescentus using the method
described by Goldberg and Moore 2012. Other acquired skills in this lab include bacterial lipid
profiling and analysis for determining the expression of lipid in bacteria using thin-layer liquid
chromatography, and radioactive labelling techniques. Others include 	RT-PCR for determining
the expression of spt gene in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) SDS-PAGE analysis of lipid and proteins.

-- 1 of 6 --

Elufisan Temidayo Oluyomi Elufisan (Sc. D)
2 Elufisan Temidayo Oluyomi (Sc.D)
Graduate studentship in the lab of Dr Xianwu Guo, 	Jan 2015 - July 2019
Centro de Biotecnologia Genomica, Instituto Politecnico Nacional, Mexico
• 	Isolated and characterized Stenotrophomonas species from different environmental samples (soil and
sewage) using both conventional techniques and molecular techniques using the 16s rRNA
amplification and sequencing to confirm the identity of bacteria.
• 	Evaluated the ability of a Stenotrophomonas 	species to degrade polycylic aromatic hydrocarbon
(PAH) in a PAH degrading assay. Metabolites formed from the degradation of PAH were identified
by Gas-column chromatography and FTIR machine.
• 	Evaluated the antimicrobial susceptibility pattern of Stenotrophomonas species using the Kirk-Baur
agar dilution technique and the microbroth dilution assay.
• 	Genomic basis for Stenotrophomonas 	ability to degrade PAH and resist several antibiotics was
determined by the next-generation sequencing of Stenotrophomonas and its analysis.
• 	Isolated and characterized Bdellovibrio species in a prey-pathogen interaction study using the double
layer agar plating technique and the bacterial liquid co-culture medium. Mechanism
Graduate Studentship at the Department of Pharmaceutical Microbiology,
University of Ibadan 	Oct 2008 – Oct 2011
- 	Isolated and carried out the antibiotic susceptibility profile for Staphylococcus aureus recovered
from wounds and HVS swab using conventional technique.
Internship at the Department of Microbiology and Parasitology, University College Hospital, Ibadan,
Nigeria 2004-2005
- 	Isolated and characterized bacteria strain from different human sample using the conventional
bacteria plating techniques.
Teaching Experience:
Visiting Scholar at the 	Universidad Tecnologico Tamaulipas Norte, Reynosa, México (Oct 2023 – till
present
Visiting Scholar at the 	Universidad Tecnologico Tamaulipas Norte, Reynosa, México (Sep. 2019 –
December 2021)
• 	Trained Undergraduates in English communication and writing.
• 	Trained students on Seminal presentation and how to attend interviews.
Science Tutor at the Universidad Tecmilenio Reynosa campus, Reynosa Mexico (August 2017 – Dec
2021)
• 	Trained students on mathematical concepts and research methodology
• 	Exposed students to the introductory concepts of human physiology.
Junior High school Principal at Imperial College Sasa-Ojoo Ibadan, Oyo state (Sep 2007 – March 2010)
- 	Taught the student Biology and prepared them for West African Examination.
- 	Worked as the Principal of the Junior High overseeing the administrative activity of the Junior High.
Fellowship and Grants.
• 	National Council for Science and Technology Postdoctoral fellowship 	2021 	–
present
27,000 Mexican peso per month for 24 months.
• 	National Council for Science and Technology Doctoral fellowship, Mexico (CONACYT), Mexico
2015 - 2018
14,000 pesos per month for 4 years.

-- 2 of 6 --

Elufisan Temidayo Oluyomi Elufisan (Sc. D)
3 Elufisan Temidayo Oluyomi (Sc.D)
Honors and Award
• 	Received the Instituto Politecnico Nacional travel award to attend ASM microbes in June 2018
• 	Received Travel award from the Federation of European Microbiological Societies to attend the
FEMS’ conference in 2017.
Supervisory and Mentoring Experience
• 	Worked with 4 masters’ students during their master thesis, helped to put them through
on the basic techniques for their study.
• 	Worked with my Ph.D. supervisor to guide 2 doctorate students during their research work
in the lab.
Academic Service
Acted as Secretary (biotechnology Sub-group, Science Policy, and Innovation Studies Department
(NACETEM), Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Nigeria,
Served as reviewer for,
• 	Current microbiology journal (Springer nature)
• 	CyTA journal of food (Taylor and francis)
• 	Genes (MDPI)
• 	Antibiotics (MDPI)
• 	Bioremediation Journal (Taylor and Francis)
• 	PLOS ONE
Ongoing research activities
• 	Whole genome sequence analysis of four multi-drug resistance Stenotrophomonas species isolated
from Mexico.
• 	Analysis of the role of sphingolipid in the virulent behavior of the Caulobacter crescentus NA 1000
• 	Identification of the phenotypic and regulatory conditions that can stimulate the biosynthesis of
sphingolipid in Escherichia coli BL21(DE3)
Certifications and Trainings
Work Ethics and Capacity building organized by Kenokit consult, October 2010
Developing Fundable proposal organized by National Center for Technology Management (An agency of
the Federal Ministry of Science and technology, Nigeria) OAU Ile-Ife, February 2011
Ethics and Procedure for Academic Writing and Publishing Organized by the Publication unit of National
Center for Technology Management (An agency of the Federal Ministry of Science and technology,
Nigeria) OAU Ile-Ife, October 2012
Increasing Productivity through improved worked process organized by Kenokit Consult Nov 2012
Leadership and Activities:
National Youth Service Corps, Osun State (Aug 2006- Aug 2007)
Junior High School Principal, Imperial College Sasa-Ojoo Ibadan (2009-2010)
Bioinformatics and Computer Skills
• 	Molecular techniques; Possess expertise in Polymerase chain reaction technique, electrophoresis,
and DNA sequencing for the characterization of bacteria and bacterial characteristics.
• 	Possess the ability to use both online software and independent pipelines such as SPAde, Velvet,
Prokka for genome assembly, annotation, and analysis.

-- 3 of 6 --

Elufisan Temidayo Oluyomi Elufisan (Sc. D)
4 Elufisan Temidayo Oluyomi (Sc.D)
• 	I can use python and R for genome analysis at the beginner’s level.
• 	Information Technology – Knowledge of Microsoft Office Packages (Word, Excel SPSS, Power
Point.). Regularly used for academic and work projects in various job positions.
Professional affiliation
America Society of Microbiologist. (ASM)
Canadian Society for Microbiologist (CSM)
Presentations
Oral Presentation: Biotechnology A tool for sustainable Algae-based Biodiesel Production in Nigeria;
Nigeria Solar Energy Society Conference 2013
Oral presentation: Isolation and Genomic Characterization of Stenotrophomonas species from Soil and
Sewage from Mexico presented at the IX Jornadas Académicas Doctorado en Ciencias en Biotecnología
held at Centro Interdisciplinario de investigacion para el desarrollo integral Regional Unidad Sinaloa May
18-19, 2015.
Oral Presentation: First reports on the Isolation of Bdellovibrio species from soil in Mexico presented at
the70th annual meeting of the Subtropical Agriculture and Environments society held at Texas A&M
University, Westlaco, Texas United State of America. February 2016
Oral presentation: Advances on the Isolation and Genomic Characterization of Stenotrophomonas species
from Soil and Sewage from Mexico presented at XI Jornadas Académicas Doctorado en Ciencias en
Biotecnología held at Best Western Hotel Plaza Durango between May 16-19, 2016.
Poster Presentation: Isolation and Characterization of Stenotrophomonas species from Mexico presented at
the 1st Binational conference on Biotechnology held at Centre for Genomics Biotechnology Reynosa,
Mexico June 2016
Poster Presentation: Hydrocarbon tolerance test and biodegradation potential of selected strains of
Stenotrophomonas maltophilia isolated from crude oil contaminated soils from Mexico; accepted for
presentation at the 7th Federation of European Microbiologist
Conference, Valencia Spain which took place between 9 and 13 July 2017.
Conference Proceeding: The role of predatory bacteria towards the control of microbial resistance, World
Congress and Exhibition on Antibiotics September 14-16, 2015, Las Vegas, USA
Poster Presentation; 	Vaccine 	developments 	against 	multi-resistant 	Drug 	organisms; 	the 	role of
bacteriophages presented at 9th global expo on Vaccine and Vaccination held at Double Tree Hotel San
Franscisco California USA between Nov 30 and 2nd December 2015
Poster Presentation: Characterization and Antibiotic Susceptibility Pattern of Community- isolated
Stenotrophomonas species; Presented at The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley (UTRGV) School of
Medicine’s Inaugural Research Symposium held on August 12, 2017
Publications
Elufisan TO, Oyelade, B and Oloke, JK, the protective effective of beta glucan on Escherichia coli induced
infection (2010), Journal of Bactriology Research VOL. 3(2), PP.28-31, February 2011
Elufisan, TO, Oyelade, B Oyedara OO (2012) Updates on microbial resistance to Drugs, African Journal of
Microbiology research Vol 6(23) pp 4833-4844
Elufisan TO, and Adeleke EO, Susceptibility pattern of Staphylococcus aureus isolated from wound of
patient attending treatment at the university college hospital Ibadan Oyo state. African Journal of Medical
Science, Vol 4(2) pg 101-115
Elufisan TO & Awoleye, OM, (2012): Combating Cybercrime in a cashless economy- the role of biometrics
available at Accounting Technology & Information Systems eJournal Vol 4, Issue 8, April 16, 2012

-- 4 of 6 --

Elufisan Temidayo Oluyomi Elufisan (Sc. D)
5 Elufisan Temidayo Oluyomi (Sc.D)
Awoleye MO, Ogunkambi, DA, Ayo-lawal, RO, Ololade GO, and Elufisan TO, (2012): Techno-Microbial
Hazard of Computer Keyboard; Health risk and Policy Implication: American Journal of Information
science vol 2 No 4
Elufisan TO and Adeleke EA, 2012: The Epidemiological role of Plasmid curing in the identification of
Staphylococcus aureus route of infection. JMEAST vol1 pg 27-44
Oyedara OO, Elufisan TO, Abioye OE, Fadare, TO and Adeyemi FM, 2012: Phytochemical and
antibacterial activities of methanolic leaf extract of Lantana camara Linn 	INTASCI Journal of
Microbiology and Biotechnology vol 2(5) pp 1-11
Ayo-Lawal, RA, Elufisan TO, Ogundari, I, Adesiyan, IM and Famurewa, AJ, 2013: Biotechnology A tool
for sustainable Algae-based Biodiesel Production in Nigeria. Nigeria Solar Energy Journal vol 23 pg 6-16
Oluyide BO, Oloke JK, Elufisan TO, Ogunyemi, TF, 2013: Investigation on the Ability of Sulfonolipid from
Salinibacter ruber to Ameliorate the Toxic Effect of Sodium Arsenite on the Sperm Count and Testoterone
Level in Rat Annual Review & Research in Biology 3 (4), 860-872
Oyedara OO, Luna-Santillana D, de Jesus E, Olguin-Rodriguez O, Guo X, Mendoza-Villa MA, Menchaca-
Arredondo JL, Elufisan TO, Garza-Hernandez JA, Garcia Leon I, Rodriguez-Perez MA, 2016. Isolation of
Bdellovibrio sp. from soil samples in Mexico and their potential applications in control of pathogens.
MicrobiologyOpen. Dec 1;5(6):992-1002.
Sanchez-Varela, A., Rodriguez-Luna, I. C., Ortega-Balleza, J. L., Elufisan, TO., Guo, X., Castro- Escarpulli-
G. Identificación de Aeromonas spp. A partir de aislados clínicos y ambientales, en Reynosa Tamaulipas,
México. Revista de Aplicación Científica y Técnica. 2017, 3-8: 35-39
Omotayo Opemipo Oyedara, Aldo Segura-Cabrera, Xianwu Guo, Temidayo Oluyomi Elufisan, Rafael
Alejandro Cantú González, and Mario A. Rodríguez Pérez, “Whole-Genome Sequencing and Comparative
Genome Analysis Provided Insight into the Predatory Features and Genetic Diversity of Two
BdellovibrioSpecies Isolated from Soil,” International Journal of Genomics, vol. 2018, Article ID 9402073,
10 pages, 2018. doi:10.1155/2018/9402073
Elufisan TO, Lozano L, Bustos P, Rodríguez-Luna IC, Sánchez-Varela A, Oyedara OO4, Villalobos-López
MÁ, Guo X. Complete Genome Sequence of S. maltophilia Strain SVIA2, Isolated from Crude Oil-
Contaminated Soil in Tabasco, Mexico, Microbiol Resour Announc. 2019 Jul 25;8(30). pii: e00529-19. doi:
10.1128/MRA.00529-19.
Elufisan 	TO, 	Rodríguez-Luna 	IC, 	Oyedara 	OO, 	Sánchez-Varela 	A, 	Hernández-Mendoza 	A,
DantánGonzalez E, Paz-González AD, Muhammad K, Rivera G, Villalobos-Lopez MA, Guo X. The
Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbon (PAH) degradation activities and genome analysis of a novel strain
Stenotrophomonas 	sp. 	Pemsol 	isolated 	from 	Mexico.PeerJ8:e8102 	Jan, 	2020,
http://doi.org/10.7717/peerj.8102.
Vilchis-Carmona, J. A., Rodríguez-Luna, I. C., Elufisan, T. O., Sánchez-Varela, A., Bibbins-Martínez, M.,
Rivera, G., ... & Guo, X. (2021). The decolorization and degradation of azo dyes by two Stenotrophomonas
strains isolated from textile effluent (Tepetitla, Mexico). Brazilian Journal of Microbiology, 1-13.
Huerta-alemán, M. E., Martínez-Herrera, R. E., Elufisan, T. O., Gandarilla-Pacheco, F. L., Quintero-Zapata,
I., 	Reyez-López, M. Á., & 	de Luna-Santillana, 	E. D. J. (2022). 	Draft 	Genome 	Sequence 	of 	a
Polyhydroxyalkanoate-Producing Bacillus cereus Strain Isolated from Nuevo Leon State, Mexico.
Microbiology Resource Announcements, e00269-22.
Lopez, E. S., Elufisan, T. O., Bustos, P., Charles, C. P. M., Mendoza-Herrera, A., & Guo, X. (2022). Complete
Genome Report of a Hydrocarbon-Degrading Sphingobium yanoikuyae S72. Applied Sciences, 12(12),
6201.

-- 5 of 6 --

Elufisan Temidayo Oluyomi Elufisan (Sc. D)
6 Elufisan Temidayo Oluyomi (Sc.D)
Ajao, Y. O., Rodríguez-Luna, I. C., Elufisan, T. O., Sánchez-Varela, A., Cortés-Espinosa, D. V., Camilli, A.,
& Guo, X. (2022). Bdellovibrio reynosensis sp. nov., from a Mexico soil sample. International Journal of
Systematic and Evolutionary Microbiology, 72(12), 005608.
Martínez-Herrera, R. E., Aemán-Huerta, M. E., Rutiaga-Quiñones, O. M., de Luna-Santillana, E. J., &
Elufisan, T. O. (2023). A comprehensive view of Bacillus cereus as a polyhydroxyalkanoate (PHA)
producer: A promising alternative to Petroplastics. Process Biochemistry.
Oyewole, K. A., Oyedara, O. O., Awojide, S. H., Olawade, M. O., Abioye, O. E., Adeyemi, F. M., ... &
Elufisan, T. O. (2023). Antibacterial and In Silico Evaluation of β-lactamase Inhibitory Potential of Pinus
sylvestris L. (Scots Pine) Essential Oil. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, India Section B:
Biological Sciences, 1-11.
Olea-Ozuna, R. J., Poggio, S., Bergström, E., Osorio, A., ELUFISAN, T. O., Padilla-Gómez, J., ... & Geiger,
O. (2024). Genes required for the formation of virulence-provoking bacterial sphingolipids. bioRxiv, 2024-
02.
Articles under review
nature)
Book chapters
Elufisan, T. O., Oyedara, O. O., & Oluyide, O. O. (2023). 3 Transcriptional Regulation of Phyto-Oxylipins
Signaling Pathway. Phyto-Oxylipins: Metabolism, Physiological Roles, and Profiling Techniques.
Oyedara, O. O., Adeyemi, F. M., Adetunji, C. O., & Elufisan, T. O. (2022). Repositioning antiviral drugs as
a rapid and cost-effective approach to discover treatment against SARS-CoV-2 infection. In Medical
Biotechnology, Biopharmaceutics, Forensic Science and Bioinformatics (pp. 155-166). CRC Press.
References
1. 	Dr. Xianwu Guo, (Doctoral study, Supervisor)
Center for Genomic Science, National Polytechnic Inistitute, Mexico,
Email: xguo@ipn.mx
2. 	Dr Abiodun Egbetokun (Former HOD of my department NACETEM)
National Center for Technology Management An agency of the Federal Republic of Science and
Technology, Nigeria,
Email: aaegbetokun@gmail.com
3. 	Dr. Miguel-Angel Villabos-Lopez (Co-Supervisor, Doctoral studies),
Center for Applied Biotechnology, National Polytechnic Institute, Mexico,
Email: mangel@ipn.mx

-- 6 of 6 --

